microcontrollers: add new boards that are part of 0.19 release (#195)
tinygo-org/tinygo-site: content/docs/reference/microcontrollers/nano-33-ble.md

---
title: "Arduino Nano33 BLE"
weight: 3
---

> 

Reviewer: Probably also add info about “Sense” variant that has same pinout just more sensors built-in on the same board, mainly on I2C bus.

The [Arduino Nano33 BLE](h) is a very small ARM development board based on the Nordic Semiconductor [nrf52840](https://www.nordicsemi.com/eng/Products/nRF52840) processor.

## Interfaces

| Interface | Hardware Supported | TinyGo Support |
| --------- | ------------- | ----- |
| GPIO      | YES | YES |
| UART      | YES | YES |
| SPI      | YES | YES |
| I2C      | YES | YES |
| ADC      | YES | YES |
| PWM      | YES | YES |

## Machine Package Docs

> [Documentation for the machine package for the Arduino Nano33 IoT](../machine/arduino-nano33-ble)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Documentation for the machine package for the Arduino Nano33 BLE](../machine/nano-33-ble)
```

## Installing BOSSA

> In order to flash your TinyGo programs onto the Arduino Nano33 BLE board, you will need to install the "arduino_bossac" command line utility which is a special build of the [BOSSA command line utilities](https://github.com/shumatech/BOSSA).

Reviewer: That’s actually `bossac_arduino2` but we can rename it, of course.

### macOS

> Instructions needed here.

Reviewer: Find instructions (for all OS) here: https://github.com/tinygo-org/tinygo/blob/e02f308d43ff43fa649f4129c15e0f3809420801/src/machine/board_nano-33-ble.go#L7

### Linux

Instructions needed here.

### Windows

Instructions needed here.

## Flashing

Once you have installed the needed BOSSA command line utility, as in the previous section, you are ready to build and flash code to your Arduino Nano33 BLE board.

### CLI Flashing

- Plug your Arduino Nano33 BLE board into your computer's USB port.
- Build and flash your TinyGo code using the `tinygo flash` command. This command flashes the Arduino Nano33 BLE with the blinky1 example:

    ```shell

>     tinygo flash -target=arduino-nano33-ble examples/blinky1

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    tinygo flash -target=nano-33-ble examples/blinky1
```

Reviewer 2: On a sidenote (not relevant for this pr) the naming of the arduino nano 33 targets is inconsistent here

arduino-nano33 == Arduino Nano 33 IoT
nano33-ble == Arduino Nano 33 BLE
